Section  21.1:      1, 2, 4, 7

Section  21.2:      1, 2, 6



21.1-1
Let (u, v) be a minimum-weight edge in a connected graph G. Show that
(u, v) belongs to some minimum spanning tree of G.

21.1-2
Professor Sabatier conjectures the following converse of Theorem 21.1.
Let G = (V, E) be a connected, undirected graph with a real-valued
weight function w defined on E. Let A be a subset of E that is included
in some minimum spanning tree for G, let (S, V – S) be any cut of G
that respects A, and let (u, v) be a safe edge for A crossing (S, V – S).
Then, (u, v) is a light edge for the cut. Show that the professor’s
conjecture is incorrect by giving a counterexample.

21.1-4
Give a simple example of a connected graph such that the set of edges
{(u, v) : there exists a cut (S, V – S) such that (u, v) is a light edge
crossing (S, V – S)} does not form a minimum spanning tree.

21.1-7
Argue that if all edge weights of a graph are positive, then any subset of
edges that connects all vertices and has minimum total weight must be a
tree. Give an example to show that the same conclusion does not follow
if we allow some weights to be nonpositive





21.2-1
Kruskal’s algorithm can return different spanning trees for the same
input graph G, depending on how it breaks ties when the edges are
sorted. Show that for each minimum spanning tree T of G, there is a
way to sort the edges of G in Kruskal’s algorithm so that the algorithm
returns T.

21.2-2
Give a simple implementation of Prim’s algorithm that runs in O(V2)
time when the graph G = (V, E) is represented as an adjacency matrix.

21.2-6
Professor Borden proposes a new divide-and-conquer algorithm for
computing minimum spanning trees, which goes as follows. Given a
graph G = (V, E), partition the set V of vertices into two sets V1 and V2
such that |V1| and |V2| differ by at most 1. Let E1 be the set of edges
that are incident only on vertices in V1, and let E2 be the set of edges
that are incident only on vertices in V2. Recursively solve a minimum-
spanning-tree problem on each of the two subgraphs G1 = (V1, E1) and
G2 = (V2, E2). Finally, select the minimum-weight edge in E that
crosses the cut V1, V2), and use this edge to unite the resulting two
minimum spanning trees into a single spanning tree.
Either argue that the algorithm correctly computes a minimum
spanning tree of G, or provide an example for which the algorithm fails